[#4060] Align completeness between old Aggregate and new Entity description (#4562)
AxonFramework/AxonFramework: docs/reference-guide/modules/commands/pages/entities/event-sourced-entity.adoc

    // ...
}
----

<1> Marks the identifier field on the event so Axon can filter the event stream for this entity.
<2> Must match the field name used in `@EventTag`.
Set `tagKey` explicitly to keep it stable if the class is renamed.
See xref:events:event-store-internals.adoc#tags[Event store internals] for details on how tag-based filtering works.

[NOTE]
====
`@Command(routingKey = "...")` is a separate concern: it sets the routing key used by a distributed command bus (such as Axon Server) to route the command to the correct application node.
It does not affect which entity instance is loaded.
====

== Entity members

An event-sourced entity consists of four types of members:

* **Creational command handlers**: static methods that handle the command that creates the entity.
They validate the command and append the creation event.
* **Instance command handlers**: instance methods that handle commands on an already-existing entity.
They validate the command against current state and append events.
* **Event sourcing handlers**: instance methods that apply events to update the entity's state fields.
They must never contain business logic, only state assignments.

> * **Entity creator**: a constructor or static factory method annotated with `@EntityCreator` that tells Axon how to construct the initial entity instance before replaying events.

Reviewer: The choice of `@EntityCreator` is a configuration detail, only applicable when taking the automated-direction. The declarative approach wouldn't support the annotations, for example. Hence, it's better to be a bit more high-over here:

```suggestion
* **Entity creator**: a constructor or static factory method that tells Axon how to construct the initial entity instance before replaying events.
```

> The following plain Java class illustrates all four members with no framework annotations:

Reviewer: We do not have to state it's without annotations, the example already shows that.

```suggestion
The following plain Java class illustrates all four members:
```

<2> Instance command handler: validates against current state and appends the enrollment event.
<3> Event sourcing handlers: update state fields from events.
They must contain no business logic—only state assignments.
<4> No-arg constructor used as the entity creator.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Command handlers validate and append events; they must never write to entity state fields.
Event sourcing handlers update state; they must contain no business logic.

This separation is critical because event sourcing handlers also run during replay when the entity is loaded from its event stream.
Any business logic in an event sourcing handler would execute unexpectedly during replay.
====

[TIP]
====
An entity only needs the state required to make decisions about incoming commands.
An event sourcing handler is only needed when the resulting state change is relevant for validating future commands.
====

[#entity-creation-with-entitycreator]
=== Entity creator

`@EntityCreator` tells Axon how to construct the initial entity instance before replaying events.
It is mandatory for annotation-based entities; the declarative approach uses a factory instead—see <<_declarative,Declarative>>.

> See xref:commands:entities/entity-creator.adoc[Entity creator] for the three supported construction patterns.

Reviewer: I'd reword this section like so:

```suggestion
The entity creator method can come in several forms.
You can choose a no-argument, identifier-based, or first-event-based entity creator method.
These options allow you to derive a mutable **and** immutable entity depending on the preferred structure.

Depending on the configuration style, you will either use the `EventSourcedEntityFactory` (declarative style) or `@EntityCreator` (automated style) to define your entity creator methods.

For more details on the options, be sure to check the See xref:commands:entities/entity-creator.adoc[Entity creator] section.
```

. <<_autodetected,Autodetected>>: annotate with `@EventSourcedEntity`. Register with `EventSourcedEntityModule.autodetected()`.
. <<_spring_boot,Spring Boot>>: annotate with `@EventSourced`. Axon's auto-configuration detects and registers it automatically.

[#_declarative]
=== Declarative

The declarative approach wires the entity's existing methods into Axon without touching the entity class.

[source,java]
----
import org.axonframework.eventsourcing.EventSourcedEntityFactory;
import org.axonframework.eventsourcing.configuration.EventSourcedEntityModule;
import org.axonframework.eventsourcing.configuration.EventSourcingConfigurer;
import org.axonframework.messaging.core.MessageStream;
import org.axonframework.messaging.core.MessageTypeResolver;
import org.axonframework.messaging.core.QualifiedName;
import org.axonframework.messaging.eventhandling.gateway.EventAppender;
import org.axonframework.messaging.eventstreaming.EventCriteria;
import org.axonframework.messaging.eventstreaming.Tag;
import org.axonframework.modelling.annotation.AnnotationBasedEntityIdResolver;

> EventSourcingConfigurer configurer = EventSourcingConfigurer.create();

Reviewer: I'd prefer we do not invoke `EventSourcingConfigurer.create` in lower-level configuration examples. Users should be required to construct such a base `ApplicationConfigurer` only **once** in their application. 

By suggesting it here for creating a `CourseEntity`, users may think they need to create an `EventSourcingConfigurer` for **every** entity, which is not correct.

Hence, I'd recommend we wrap the `configurer#registerEntity` call in a method like so:

```
public class AxonConfig {
    public EventSourcingConfigurer configureEntity(EventSourcingConfigurer configurer) {
        return configurer.registerEntity(...);
    } 
}
```

                    }
                )
                .entityEvolver((entity, event, context) -> { // <6>
                    QualifiedName courseCreated = resolver.resolveOrThrow(CourseCreatedEvent.class).qualifiedName();
                    QualifiedName studentEnrolled = resolver.resolveOrThrow(StudentEnrolledEvent.class).qualifiedName();
                    if (event.type().qualifiedName().equals(courseCreated)) {
                        entity.on(event.payloadAs(CourseCreatedEvent.class));
                    } else if (event.type().qualifiedName().equals(studentEnrolled)) {
                        entity.on(event.payloadAs(StudentEnrolledEvent.class));
                    }
                    return entity;
                })
                .build();
        })
        .entityFactory(c -> EventSourcedEntityFactory.fromIdentifier(id -> new CourseEntity())) // <7>
        .criteriaResolver(c -> (id, ctx) -> EventCriteria.havingTags(Tag.of("courseId", id))) // <8>
        .entityIdResolver(c -> new AnnotationBasedEntityIdResolver<>()) // <9>
        .build()
);
----

<1> Resolve qualified names via `MessageTypeResolver` rather than constructing `QualifiedName` directly.

> This respects any custom name or namespace declared on `@Command`, `@Event`, or `@Query` annotations and falls back to the fully qualified class name when none is present.

Reviewer: This sentence is true if the `MessageTypeResolver` is an `AnnotationMessageTypeResolver`, which we **do not know** from this part. Hence, the description needs to be a bit more defensive, stating something like:

```suggestion
This respects any custom name or namespace defined in the used `MessageTypeResolver`, or on `@Command`, `@Event`, or `@Query` annotations when the automated type resolution is used.
```

> <2> Creational command handlers are invoked when no entity instance exists yet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> Creational command handlers are invoked as the starting point for a new entity instance.
```

<3> Delegates to the entity's `create` method—business logic stays in the entity.
`EventAppender.forContext(context)` creates or retrieves the event appender bound to the current processing context.
To append metadata alongside an event, see xref:events:event-publishing.adoc#_appending_events_with_metadata[Appending events with metadata].

<4> Instance command handlers are invoked on an already-existing entity.
The loaded entity is passed as the second argument.

<5> Delegates to the entity's `enroll` method.

<6> The entity evolver delegates to the entity's own `on` methods and returns the same instance.

> <7> `EventSourcedEntityFactory.fromIdentifier` wraps a constructor that takes only the entity identifier.

Reviewer: The `CourseEntity` shown above, which is used in this example, has a no-arg constructor. Hence, the configuration should use the `EventSourcedEntityFactory#fromNoArgument` solution instead. This change needs to be made here **and** in the configuration example above.

        if (enrolledCount >= capacity) {
            throw new IllegalStateException("Course is full");
        }
        eventAppender.append(new StudentEnrolledEvent(courseId, cmd.studentId()));
    }

    @EventSourcingHandler
    private void on(CourseCreatedEvent event) {
        this.courseId = event.courseId();
        this.title = event.title();
        this.capacity = event.capacity();
    }

    @EventSourcingHandler
    private void on(StudentEnrolledEvent event) {
        this.enrolledCount++;
    }

    @EntityCreator
    protected CourseEntity() {
    }
}
----

<1> Use `@EventSourcedEntity` (non-Spring) instead of `@EventSourced`.

Register the entity using `EventSourcingConfigurer`:

[source,java]
----
import org.axonframework.eventsourcing.configuration.EventSourcedEntityModule;
import org.axonframework.eventsourcing.configuration.EventSourcingConfigurer;

EventSourcingConfigurer configurer = EventSourcingConfigurer.create();
configurer.registerEntity(
    EventSourcedEntityModule.autodetected(String.class, CourseEntity.class) // <1>
);
----

<1> The first argument is the identifier type; the second is the entity class.

> `autodetected` reads `@CommandHandler`, `@EventSourcingHandler`, and `@EntityCreator` annotations from the class automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `EventSourcedEntityModule#autodetected` flow reads `@CommandHandler`, `@EventSourcingHandler`, and `@EntityCreator` annotations from the class automatically.
```

=== Spring Boot

In Spring Boot, annotate the entity with `@EventSourced` instead of `@EventSourcedEntity`.
Axon's auto-configuration detects and registers it automatically—no explicit configuration class is required.
The entity class structure is otherwise identical to the <<_autodetected,autodetected>> approach.

== Placing handlers on the entity vs. a separate component

Command handlers can be placed directly on the entity class (as shown above) or kept in a separate component that receives the entity as a parameter via `@InjectEntity`.
Both approaches are valid—choose based on how you want to structure your codebase.

Placing handlers on the entity keeps all logic for that entity in one class.
A separate component lets you organize code by use case rather than by entity, which aligns with Vertical Slice Architecture.

> See xref:commands:entities/command-handler-components.adoc[Command handler components] for the full pattern.

Reviewer: This section reference should also pivot to "stateful command handler" i.o. "command handler components"

====

[TIP]
====
An entity only needs the state required to make decisions about incoming commands.
An event sourcing handler is only needed when the resulting state change is relevant for validating future commands.
====

[#entity-creation-with-entitycreator]
=== Entity creator

`@EntityCreator` tells Axon how to construct the initial entity instance before replaying events.
It is mandatory for annotation-based entities; the declarative approach uses a factory instead—see <<_declarative,Declarative>>.

See xref:commands:entities/entity-creator.adoc[Entity creator] for the three supported construction patterns.

== Configuring an entity

Three approaches are available to wire this entity into Axon:

. <<_declarative,Declarative>>: no annotations on the entity class. Wire handlers and lifecycle programmatically with `EventSourcedEntityModule.declarative()`.
. <<_autodetected,Autodetected>>: annotate with `@EventSourcedEntity`. Register with `EventSourcedEntityModule.autodetected()`.
. <<_spring_boot,Spring Boot>>: annotate with `@EventSourced`. Axon's auto-configuration detects and registers it automatically.

> === Declarative

Reviewer 2: should be explicitly declared, since you reference it from `entity-creator.adoc`
```suggestion
[#_declarative]
=== Declarative
```

Both approaches are valid—choose based on how you want to structure your codebase.

Placing handlers on the entity keeps all logic for that entity in one class.
A separate component lets you organize code by use case rather than by entity, which aligns with Vertical Slice Architecture.

See xref:commands:entities/command-handler-components.adoc[Command handler components] for the full pattern.

== Further reading

* xref:commands:command-handlers.adoc[Command handlers]
* xref:commands:entities/command-handler-components.adoc[Command handler components]
* xref:commands:entities/entity-hierarchies.adoc[Entity hierarchies]
* xref:commands:entities/entity-polymorphism.adoc[Polymorphic entities]
* xref:events:event-handlers.adoc[Event handlers]
* xref:events:event-publishing.adoc#_appending_events_with_metadata[Appending events with metadata]—to append metadata alongside an event, pass a `Metadata` instance as the second argument to `eventAppender.append()`
* xref:tuning:snapshotting.adoc[Snapshotting]—available as a performance optimization for entities with large event streams

> * xref:testing:index.adoc[Test fixtures]—the test fixture guards against unintentional state changes in command handlers and is strongly recommended for stateful entity testing

Reviewer 2: to me that looks rather extensive, especially those items without an additional explanation as to why the further reading might make sense (which only the last 3 items have)

= Event-Sourced Entities
:navtitle: Event-sourced entities

An event-sourced entity stores no state directly.
Instead, every state change is recorded as an event, and the entity's current state is reconstructed by replaying those events in order.
This makes the event log the single source of truth, giving you a complete and immutable audit trail of everything that ever happened to the entity.

[TIP]
====

> If you are unfamiliar with event sourcing, see xref:events:index.adoc[Events] for an introduction to the concept.

Reviewer 2: Either reference the Core concepts section on the events index page here like (requires to introduce a `[#core-concepts]` anchor at the heading there):
```suggestion
If you are unfamiliar with event sourcing, see xref:events:index.adoc#core-concepts[Events core concepts] for an introduction to the concept.
```

 Or alternatively directy link to the event sourcing page referenced there by changing it to:

```suggestion
If you are unfamiliar with event sourcing, see our explanation on link:https://www.axoniq.io/concepts/event-sourcing[**Event Sourcing**] for an introduction to the concept.
```

Reviewer: Agreed with @hatzlj here.

====

== Entity identification

Every command that targets an entity instance must identify which instance to load.

> Annotate the identifier field on the command with `@TargetEntityId`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To that end, we can annotate the identifier field on the command with `@TargetEntityId`:
```

[source,java]
----
import org.axonframework.modelling.annotation.TargetEntityId;

public record EnrollStudentCommand(
        @TargetEntityId String courseId, // <1>
        String studentId
) {}
----

<1> Axon reads this field to load the correct entity instance before invoking the handler.

> Not required on static creational command handlers, since no entity exists yet at that point.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that this is not required on static creational command handlers, since no entity exists yet at that point. Hence, there is no entity to target yet!
```

Axon also needs to know which events belong to this entity's stream.
Set `tagKey` on the entity annotation to the tag key used on your events, and mark the corresponding event field with `@EventTag`:

[source,java]
----
import org.axonframework.eventsourcing.annotation.EventTag;

public record CourseCreatedEvent(
        @EventTag String courseId, // <1>
        String title,
        int capacity
) {}
----

> 

Reviewer 2: would be great to also include the entity with the `tagKey` set on the entity annotation in the example (similar as @MateuszNaKodach did in his [Event tag migration guide PR](https://github.com/AxonIQ/AxonFramework/pull/4538)

Reviewer: Ah shortened entity, just showing that part, instead of a full-fledged solution. But otherwise, agreed with this point!

* **Instance command handlers**: instance methods that handle commands on an already-existing entity.
They validate the command against current state and append events.
* **Event sourcing handlers**: private instance methods that apply events to update the entity's state fields.
They must never contain business logic, only state assignments.
* **Entity creator**: a constructor or static factory method annotated with `@EntityCreator` that tells Axon how to construct the initial entity instance before replaying events.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Command handlers validate and append events; they must never write to entity state fields.
Event sourcing handlers update state; they must contain no business logic.

This separation is critical because event sourcing handlers also run during replay when the entity is loaded from its event stream.
Any business logic in an event sourcing handler would execute unexpectedly during replay.
====

[TIP]
====
An entity only needs the state required to make decisions about incoming commands.
An event sourcing handler is only needed when the resulting state change is relevant for validating future commands.
====

[#entity-creation-with-entitycreator]

> === Entity creator

Reviewer: Sorry, I think I wasn't clear in my earlier comment. I was thinking of making this a separate `.adoc` file instead of moving it in here! I mean, we should definitely reference it **from** this file, that's for sure. But, these three styles allow for different modes of constructing your entity. Modes that deserve space, on their own page.

Added, if we move this to it's own page, we can get to the most important part of this page, which is the basics of what an entity looks like.

But, let me know if you agree. If you don't we can discuss, of course!

Author: i understand the reasoning (for me it is a bit difficult to determine what is crucial info and what is not since I did not work on it or have used it in a real app)

[WARNING]
====
Use `@InjectEntityId` to disambiguate the identifier from an event payload.
Without it, the first parameter is assumed to be the event payload (Pattern 3).
====

**Pattern 3: Creation from first event**

When placed on a constructor that takes an event type as its first parameter, Axon passes the first event in the entity's stream at construction time:

[source,java]
----
@EventSourced
public class CourseEntity {

    private final String courseId;
    private final int initialCapacity;

    @EntityCreator // <1>
    protected CourseEntity(CourseCreatedEvent event) {
        this.courseId = event.courseId();
        this.initialCapacity = event.capacity();
    }

    @CommandHandler
    public static String handle(CreateCourseCommand cmd, EventAppender appender) {
        appender.append(new CourseCreatedEvent(cmd.courseId(), cmd.capacity()));
        return cmd.courseId();
    }
}
----

<1> Axon invokes this constructor with the first event when sourcing the entity.
Can be combined with an `@InjectEntityId`-annotated parameter if both the event and identifier are needed.

> == Configuring an entity

Reviewer: Perhaps we can word and structure section slightly differently. Although technically it's about configuring, for the user it's about their entity.

So, if we start with a domain-centric `Course` entity class with everything in it, we can from their slowly show the configuration options.
E.g., we take the annotated example, but strip away all the annotations. Without the annotations, that class can be the input for a declarative configuration! In your example right now, you essentially do the assertion in side the (for example) `instanceCommandHandler` registration for the `EnrollStudentCommand`. But ideally, that registration invokes a method on the `Course`. It is **that** method which is the command handler. **That** is the layering Axon Framework provides around the `Course` just by having the annotations.

So, long story short, I think we could have:

1. A show case of a bare `Course` entity. With command handlers, event sourcing handlers, state, and creation logic. Just **no** annotations.
2. Then that is followed up by explaining how we can configure that, taking the three options as drafted below.
3. Firstly, the declarative configuration section would thus only show the `EventSourcingConfigurer#registerEntity` stuff, not the `Course` entity. Internally, it would refer to the methods of the `Course` entity that have been shown earlier.
4. Second, we'd add the automated configuration through annotations. This would, of course, require a copy of the `Course` entity, but now with annotations.
5. Lastly, we'd do the Spring configuration version. For this one, I'd clarify we only need to switch the `@EventSourcedEntity` annotation for `@EventSourced`.

Sorry for the long-winded explanation here... If you want to chat about it face-to-face before proceeding, let me know!

public record CourseEntity(String courseId, String title, int capacity, int enrolledCount) {

    CourseEntity(String courseId) { // <1>
        this(courseId, "", 0, 0);
    }
}
----

<1> A minimal constructor used by the entity factory as the initial state when the entity is first loaded by ID.

Register the entity with `EventSourcedEntityModule.declarative()`:

[source,java]
----
import org.axonframework.eventsourcing.EventSourcedEntityFactory;
import org.axonframework.eventsourcing.configuration.EventSourcedEntityModule;
import org.axonframework.eventsourcing.configuration.EventSourcingConfigurer;
import org.axonframework.messaging.core.MessageStream;
import org.axonframework.messaging.core.QualifiedName;
import org.axonframework.messaging.eventhandling.gateway.EventAppender;
import org.axonframework.messaging.eventstreaming.EventCriteria;
import org.axonframework.messaging.eventstreaming.Tag;

EventSourcingConfigurer configurer = EventSourcingConfigurer.create();

configurer.registerEntity(
    EventSourcedEntityModule.declarative(String.class, CourseEntity.class)
        .messagingModel((config, model) -> model
            .creationalCommandHandler( // <1>

>                 new QualifiedName(CreateCourseCommand.class),

Reviewer 2: since users tend to copy from examples, i would make the following the default as it convers both custom names/namespaces and the FQCN fallback (also below). Instead of the note below you can explain the reason for it in an additional callout: 
```suggestion
config.getComponent(MessageTypeResolver.class).resolveOrThrow(CreateCourseCommand.class).qualifiedName(), // <2>
```

= Event-Sourced Entities
:navtitle: Event-sourced entities

An event-sourced entity stores no state directly.
Instead, every state change is recorded as an event, and the entity's current state is reconstructed by replaying those events in order.
This makes the event log the single source of truth, giving you a complete and immutable audit trail of everything that ever happened to the entity.

[TIP]
====
If you are unfamiliar with event sourcing, see xref:events:index.adoc[Events] for an introduction to the concept.
====

== Defining an event-sourced entity

> An event-sourced entity consists of three types of methods:

Reviewer: I think the `@EntityCreator` also belongs in this list.

* **Creational command handlers**: static methods that handle the command that creates the entity.
They validate the command and append the creation event.
* **Instance command handlers**: instance methods that handle commands on an already-existing entity.
They validate the command against current state and append events.
* **Event sourcing handlers**: private instance methods that apply events to update the entity's state fields.
They must never contain business logic, only state assignments.

> The `@EventSourcedEntity` annotation (or `@EventSourced` in Spring environments) marks the class so Axon can discover and register it.

Reviewer: The fact annotations are used is a choice, not a necessity. So this marker should go inside the tab, or as a listing like:

1. Declarative (link to tab)
2. Annotated (link to tab)
3. Spring-annotated (link to tab)

> [tabs]

Reviewer: The sample is great, but we need a declarative configuration example as well. That is new compared to AF4, of course, but I would want the docs to be vocal about that opportunity.

> [tabs]

Reviewer: Given the size of these...perhaps it's better to make them sections instead of (code) tabs? Tabs are smaller than a full-page section.

    }

    @EventSourcingHandler
    private void on(StudentEnrolledEvent event) {
        this.enrolledCount++;
    }

    @EntityCreator // <7>
    protected CourseEntity() {
    }
}
----
+
<1> `tagKey = "courseId"` tells Axon which tag to filter events by when loading this entity's stream.
If omitted, Axon falls back to the entity's simple class name.
+
<2> A static method with `@CommandHandler` is the creational handler.
It must be static because no entity instance exists yet when the creation command arrives.
+
<3> Events are appended via `EventAppender`, which is injected as a parameter.
Never modify state directly in a command handler; always go through events.
+
<4> Return the entity identifier so the caller knows which entity was created.
+
<5> Instance command handlers read current state to make decisions.
This state was built up by replaying past events via the `@EventSourcingHandler` methods.
+
<6> Event sourcing handlers update state.
They are called when replaying historical events to reconstruct the entity, and again for newly appended events.
+
<7> The `@EntityCreator` constructor tells Axon how to create an empty entity instance before applying events.

> See xref:commands:command-handlers.adoc#entity-creation-with-entitycreator[Entity creation with `@EntityCreator`] for all three creation patterns.

Reviewer: Ah, so this section from `command-handlers.adoc` is, now that I see it, a good candidate as a dedicated section under the `entities` folder you've created :-)
Those are entity-details, not generic command-handler details, after all.

    @CommandHandler
    public static String handle(CreateCourseCommand cmd, EventAppender eventAppender) {
        if (cmd.capacity() <= 0) {
            throw new IllegalArgumentException("Capacity must be positive");
        }
        eventAppender.append(new CourseCreatedEvent(cmd.courseId(), cmd.title(), cmd.capacity()));
        return cmd.courseId();
    }

    @CommandHandler
    public void handle(EnrollStudentCommand cmd, EventAppender eventAppender) {
        if (enrolledCount >= capacity) {
            throw new IllegalStateException("Course is full");
        }
        eventAppender.append(new StudentEnrolledEvent(courseId, cmd.studentId()));
    }

    @EventSourcingHandler
    private void on(CourseCreatedEvent event) {
        this.courseId = event.courseId();
        this.title = event.title();
        this.capacity = event.capacity();
    }

    @EventSourcingHandler
    private void on(StudentEnrolledEvent event) {
        this.enrolledCount++;
    }

    @EntityCreator
    protected CourseEntity() {
    }
}
----
+
<1> Use `@EventSourcedEntity` (non-Spring) instead of `@EventSourced`.
Subtypes do not need a separate annotation.
====

> == Event stream filtering and command routing

Reviewer: I think something about identification is important...but should come first. Just as with the original docs, that started with [aggregate identifiers](https://docs.axoniq.io/axon-framework-reference/4.13/axon-framework-commands/modeling/aggregate/#_aggregate_identifiers).

Added, documentation about tags can refer to [this](https://docs.axoniq.io/axon-framework-reference/5.1/events/event-store-internals/#tags) page if readers want more info. This page should purely state "do this, than it works". If somebody wants to understand details, a referral to the page explaining that part is preferred.

<2> `tagKey = "courseId"` tells Axon to load this entity's events by filtering on tag key `"courseId"`, matching the tag produced by `@EventTag`.

If `tagKey` is omitted on the entity, Axon falls back to the entity's simple class name—set it explicitly to keep the tag key stable across refactoring.

For instance command handlers, Axon also needs to know which entity instance to load.
Annotate the identifier field on the command with `@TargetEntityId`:

[source,java]
----
import org.axonframework.modelling.annotation.TargetEntityId;

public record EnrollStudentCommand(
    @TargetEntityId String courseId, // <1>
    String studentId
) {}
----

<1> Axon reads this field to load the correct entity instance from the event store before invoking the handler.
Not required on the static creational command handler, since no entity exists yet at that point.

[NOTE]
====
`@Command(routingKey = "...")` is a separate concern: it sets the routing key used by a distributed command bus (such as Axon Server) to route the command to the right application node.
It does not affect which entity instance is loaded.
====

> == Separation of concerns

Reviewer: I like the content of the section, but I don't think it should be a section. This should be an `[IMPORTANT]` pop-out box on this page.

Command handlers validate and publish events; they must never write to state fields.
Event sourcing handlers update state; they must contain no business logic.

This separation matters because event sourcing handlers also run during replay when the entity is loaded from its event stream—any business logic there would execute unexpectedly.

[TIP]
====
The xref:testing:index.adoc[Test Fixture] catches state mutations in command handlers automatically.
====

> == Appending events with metadata

Reviewer: This could be a single sentence at the point this page explains the `EventAppender`, referring to [this](https://docs.axoniq.io/axon-framework-reference/5.1/events/event-publishing/#_appending_events_with_metadata) page.

Pass a `Metadata` instance as the second argument to attach metadata (correlation IDs, user context, etc.) to an event:

[source,java]
----
import org.axonframework.messaging.core.Metadata;

@CommandHandler
public void handle(EnrollStudentCommand cmd, EventAppender eventAppender) {
    Metadata metadata = Metadata.from(Map.of("enrolledBy", cmd.operatorId()));
    eventAppender.append(new StudentEnrolledEvent(courseId, cmd.studentId()), metadata);
}
----

To attach the same metadata to multiple events: `eventAppender.append(List.of(event1, event2), metadata)`.

> == Migrating from Axon Framework 4

Reviewer: I don't think we need a migration section on this page.

If you are porting an existing Axon 4 aggregate to an event-sourced entity, see the
xref:migration:paths/aggregates/index.adoc[aggregate migration guide] for a step-by-step walkthrough.

== Configuring event-sourced entities

[tabs]
====
Spring Boot::
+
Annotate the entity with `@EventSourced`.
Axon's auto-configuration detects and registers it automatically.
+
[source,java]
----
@EventSourced
public class CourseEntity {
    // ...
}
----

> Plain Java::

Reviewer: Ah, so this is not entirely right. The plain-java means can either go autodetected, which is annotation, or declarative, which means **no** annotations are used at all. I think we need to somehow merge this separate configuration section with the top level entity section showing a full entity. 

It's so closely related when annotations are used after all.

+
Register the entity using `EventSourcingConfigurer`:
+
[source,java]
----
import org.axonframework.eventsourcing.configuration.EventSourcedEntityModule;
import org.axonframework.eventsourcing.configuration.EventSourcingConfigurer;

EventSourcingConfigurer configurer = EventSourcingConfigurer.create();
configurer.registerEntity(
    EventSourcedEntityModule.autodetected(String.class, CourseEntity.class) // <1>
);
----
+
<1> The first argument is the identifier type; the second is the entity class.
`autodetected` reads annotations from the class automatically.
====

> == Snapshots

Reviewer: I don't think we want a snapshotting section on this page. It already has a dedicated [page](https://docs.axoniq.io/axon-framework-reference/5.1/snapshotting/). The `event-sourced-entity.adoc` should talk about the basics of an Event Sourced entity. Those are:

1. How to construct it (entity creator and static command handler)
2. How to handle a command (instance command handler)
3. How to handle an event (event sourcing handler)
4. How to make decisions (event appender / publish events)
5. How to configure an entity (declarative and annotated)

Author: i added a reference for the snapshotting since it is important to think about when working with it and gives a nudge
